LECTURE

orl THE

LIFE AND WRITINGS OF PERSIUS.

Delibered at Oxfhrd, January 24,1855.

Ir is my intention lor the present to deliver general lectures lrom time
to time on the characteristics of some of the authors whom Ι may select
as subjects sor my terminal courses To those who propose to attend
my classes they will serve as Prolegomena, gr'ouping together various
matters which will meet us afterwards as they lie scattered up and down
the course of our expository readings, and giving the point of view from
which they are to be regarded: to others I trust they may not be without
their use as Sketches Historical aud Literary, complete in themselves, in
which an attempt will be made to bring out the various features and cir-
cumstances ol each author into a broad general light, and exhibit the
interest which they possess when considered independently of critical
minutiae. .

The writer of whom I am to spealr to-day is one who, as it seemsto Ι
me, supplies ample materials both for detailed study and ior a more
transient survey. It‘ is a very superficial criticism which would pretend
that the reputation ol Persius is owing simply to the labour which has
been spent upon him: still, where the excellence of an author is un·
doubted, the difficulties of his thought or his language are only so many
additional reasons why the patient and prolonged study of him is sure to
be profitable. The difficulties ol Persius, too, have the advantage of
being definite and unmistalrable—like those os Aeschylus not like those
of Sophocles-difficulties which do not elude the grasp, but close with it

 

